Add a page for .NET interop abi/platform support. (#43210)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/native-interop/abi-support.md

---
title: Native interoperability ABI support - .NET
description: Defines the current support for interoperability with various ABIs.
ms.date: 10/25/2024
---
# Native interoperability ABI support

[Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface which run times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent what users will be working with when looking for guidance on interoperability.

> ## Support table

Author: I added other VM based languages, JVM and Python, under the C language and mention their FFI.

|   | Support | APIs |
|---|---------|------|

> | **C**                  | ✔️ | <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> provides source generated support in .NET 7+. Use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> when targeting earlier .NET versions. Refer to [Interop best practices](./best-practices.md) for additional guidance. |

Reviewer: People are likely to land on this page to answer "how to do interop between .NET and other languages". I think the "Support" column is confusing, in particular for C++. It will make people think that it is not possible to do interop between .NET and C++.

I liked he earlier formatting where each language had an explanatory paragraph better.

Author: > I think the "Support" column is confusing, in particular for C++.

Agreed. That is why I put "Guidance" on the API level. We technically don't interop with C++ is the issue. We don't have exception support any of the RAII mechanisms or even mangling resolution. Exporting via C is how it is done and that is not C++. I completely understand the nuance you are mentioning here though.

> I liked he earlier formatting where each language had an explanatory paragraph better.

Okay. I will convert back to that format instead.

| **C++**                | ❌ | [Guidance](#cpp) |
| **COM and `IUnknown`** | ✔️ | In .NET 5+, low-level, cross-platform, `IUnknown` lifetime support is provided by <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComWrappers>. In .NET 8+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> provide source generated C# projections. The built-in COM interop system is limited to the Windows platforms and required on versions prior to .NET 5. |
| **Swift**              | ✔️ | For .NET 9+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Swift> namespace.      |

> | **Objective-C**        | ✔️ | For .NET 8+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ObjectiveC> namespace. |

Reviewer 2: Also mention the existing tooling for OS APIs? Also maybe mention ObjectiveSharpie for user-defined APIs?

| **golang**             | ❌ | [Guidance](#golang) |
| **ARM64EC**            | ❌ | [Note](#arm64ec)    |

> ### <a name="cpp"></a> C++

Author: I'm not sure how we want to handle tooling links right now. Open to suggestions.

> ### <a name="cpp"></a> C++

Author: I've updated this a bit with some links to official tooling.

The [C++ language](https://isocpp.org/) has no defined ABI across all .NET supported platforms and C++ compiler implementations (that is, MSVC, clang, and GCC). This lack of a stable ABI makes support difficult to provide.

The recommended way to interoperate with C++ is to export functions marked with `extern "C"` and call them as C functions.

### <a name="golang"></a> golang

> The Go programming language is not supported for in-process interoperability. The Go runtime [imposes requirements](https://pkg.go.dev/os/signal#hdr-Non_Go_programs_that_call_Go_code) on being hosted in a process with another run time. Specifically, the use of the `SA_ONSTACK` flag on threads that run signal handlers. These requirements are not currently met by .NET and meeting them would impose non-trivial costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Go programming language is not supported for in-process interoperability. The Go runtime [imposes requirements](https://pkg.go.dev/os/signal#hdr-Non_Go_programs_that_call_Go_code) on being hosted in a process with another run time. Specifically, the use of the `SA_ONSTACK` flag on threads that run signal handlers. These requirements are not currently met by .NET.
```
Meeting these requirements would be work, but I do not think it that there would non-trivial costs once the work is done.

---
title: Native interoperability ABI support - .NET
description: Defines the current support for interoperability with various ABIs.
ms.date: 10/25/2024
---
# Native interoperability ABI support

> Application Binary Interface (ABI) is the interface which run times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent what users will be working with when looking for guidance on interoperability.

Reviewer: You can link it to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface

## COM and `IUnknown`

The COM and `IUnknown` style ABI was defined to align with the C language. It was specifically to support Object Oriented Programming, similar to C++, but to provide a stable ABI. .NET has a deep history with COM and `IUnknown` and as this ABI was originally designed to align with C, it is supported in all .NET platforms through the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComWrappers> API.

## Swift

The Swift programming environment has a well-defined stable ABI that is [supported in .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/proposed/swift-interop.md). The specific APIs that support interop with Swift can be found under the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Swift> namespace.

## Objective-C

The Objective-C language follows the C language's ABI and is [supported in .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2021/objectivec-interop.md). The specific APIs that support interop with Objective-C can be found under the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ObjectiveC> namespace.

## Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

> The JVM is a virtual machine with managed memory, similar to the .NET runtime. Interoperability with the JVM is limited through tooling like [dotnet/java-interop](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop) and comes with performance costs. The largest cost of interoperating with the JVM is the coordination between the two virtual machine's Garbage Collectors.

Reviewer: > The largest cost of interoperating with the JVM is the coordination between the two virtual machine's Garbage Collectors.

I do not think that this is true statement. It depends on the design on the coordination. It can be simple cheap explicit solution; or it can be complicated expensive transparent solution (what's used by Xamarin Android).

Similar spectrum exists for COM (optional integration with external GC - used with Xaml) or Objective-C.

> The JVM is a virtual machine with managed memory, similar to the .NET runtime. Interoperability with the JVM is limited through tooling like [dotnet/java-interop](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop) and comes with performance costs. The largest cost of interoperating with the JVM is the coordination between the two virtual machine's Garbage Collectors.

Reviewer: > Interoperability with the JVM is limited through tooling like [dotnet/java-interop](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop)

java-interop is the only binding generator linked to from this doc. Should we link binding generators for other languages, or drop the link to the Java one so that it is not the only one?

I do not see the Java as fundamentally different from C++. If there is no ABI, the common strategy is C interop that is the common currency. There are many languages in this category. For example, Python may be worth mentioning too.

Author: Removed Java for now entirely.

## golang

The Go programming language is not supported for in-process interoperability. The Go runtime [imposes requirements](https://pkg.go.dev/os/signal#hdr-Non_Go_programs_that_call_Go_code) on being hosted in a process with another run time. Specifically, the use of the `SA_ONSTACK` flag on threads that run signal handlers. These requirements are not currently met by .NET and meeting them would impose non-trivial costs.

It is recommended that users with golang dependencies use a cross-process communication technology to interoperate.

## ARM64EC

> There are currently no plans to add support for [ARM64EC](https://learn.microsoft.com/cpp/build/arm64ec-windows-abi-conventions) in .NET 5+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ARM64EC](https://learn.microsoft.com/cpp/build/arm64ec-windows-abi-conventions) ABI is not supported.
```
Nit: The official docs describe current state. They do not talk about plans.

ms.date: 10/27/2024
---
# Native interoperability ABI support

The [Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface which run-times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run-times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent what users will be working with when looking for guidance on interoperability.

## C

The C language represents a stable ABI across all platforms where .NET is supported. It is what most .NET interop APIs assume is the target. This is the recommended target language for most interop scenarios using .NET.

In .NET 7+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> provides source generated support for calling C functions. When targeting .NET 6 or earlier, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute>. Refer to [Interop best practices](./best-practices.md) for additional guidance.

> Many virtual machine based languages define a foreign function interface (FFI) in C to interoperate with other platforms. A list of examples is below.
> 
> * Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
> * CPython
> 
> Additional links:
> 
> * [CsWin32](https://github.com/microsoft/CsWin32) a source generator for access Windows Win32 API
> * [Java binding generator](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional links:

* [CsWin32](https://github.com/microsoft/CsWin32) a source generator for access Windows Win32 API

## Java

Java Virtual Machine (JVM) defines a foreign function interface (FFI) in C to interoperate with other platforms. Interoperability between .NET and Java can be achieved via this interface.

Additional links:

* [Java binding generator](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop)
```
I think Java (and potentially Python) should have its own paragraphs.

Author: Okay. Added Java and Python sections.

---
title: Native interoperability ABI support - .NET
description: Defines the current support for interoperability with various ABIs.
ms.date: 10/28/2024
---
# Native interoperability ABI support

> The [Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface which run-times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run-times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent what users will be working with when looking for guidance on interoperability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface which run-times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run-times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent scenarios when looking for guidance on interoperability.
```
"what users will be working with" does not sound like a style that we use in documentation. (The suggestion is my best guess - I will defer to the doc style experts to phrase it properly.)

Author: Agree. I'm hoping they can help too :)

## C

The C language represents a stable ABI across all platforms where .NET is supported. It is what most .NET interop APIs assume is the target. This is the recommended target language for most interop scenarios using .NET.

In .NET 7+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> provides source generated support for calling C functions. When targeting .NET 6 or earlier, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute>. Refer to [Interop best practices](./best-practices.md) for additional guidance.

Additional links:

* [`LibraryImportAttribute` walkthrough](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/pinvoke-source-generation)
* [CsWin32](https://github.com/microsoft/CsWin32) is a source generator for accessing the Windows Win32 API surface

## C++

> The [C++ language](https://isocpp.org/) has no defined ABI across all .NET supported platforms and the most popular C++ compiler implementations (that is, MSVC, clang, and GCC). This lack of a consistent ABI makes support difficult to provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [C++ language](https://isocpp.org/) has no defined ABI across all .NET supported platforms and the most popular C++ compiler implementations (that is, MSVC, clang, and GCC). This lack of a consistent ABI makes it difficult to target directly.
```

Additional links:

* [Java binding generator](https://github.com/dotnet/java-interop)

## Swift

The Swift programming environment has a well-defined stable ABI that is [supported in .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/proposed/swift-interop.md). In .NET 9+, specific APIs that support interop with Swift can be found under the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Swift> namespace.

## Objective-C

The Objective-C language follows the C language's ABI and is [supported in .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2021/objectivec-interop.md). In .NET 8+, specific APIs that support interop with Objective-C can be found under the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ObjectiveC> namespace.

Additional links:

* [Objective-Sharpie](/previous-versions/xamarin/cross-platform/macios/binding/)
* [Objective-C binding walkthrough](/dotnet/maui/migration/ios-binding-projects)

## Python

The reference implementation of the Python run-time, [CPython](https://github.com/python/cpython), defines a foreign function interface (FFI) in C to interoperate with other platforms. Interoperability between .NET and Python can be achieved via this interface.

Additional links:

> * [Providing a C API for an Extension Module](https://docs.python.org/3/extending/extending.html#providing-a-c-api-for-an-extension-module)

Reviewer: Mention https://github.com/pythonnet/pythonnet and https://github.com/tonybaloney/csnakes?

Author: I was going to avoid the csnakes because it is so new and still very much in flux so I'm inclined to wait a bit. I will mention pythonnet.

---
title: Native interoperability ABI support - .NET
description: Defines the current support for interoperability with various ABIs.
ms.date: 10/28/2024
---
# Native interoperability ABI support

> The [Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface which run-times and operating systems express low-level binary details. This can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, as well as symbol mangling. The below list contains the names of languages, run-times and even general technologies since these names tend to represent what users will be working with when looking for guidance on interoperability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Application Binary Interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) (ABI) is the interface that runtimes and operating systems use to express low-level binary details. Those details can include calling conventions (that is, how parameters are passed and results returned), exception handling, and symbol mangling. The list that follows contains the names of languages, runtimes, and even general technologies that you might use when looking for guidance on interoperability.
```

## C

> The C language represents a stable ABI across all platforms where .NET is supported. It is what most .NET interop APIs assume is the target. This is the recommended target language for most interop scenarios using .NET.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The C language represents a stable ABI across all platforms where .NET is supported. In general, C is the assumed target for .NET interop APIs and is the recommended target language for most interop scenarios.
```

> In .NET 7+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> provides source generated support for calling C functions. When targeting .NET 6 or earlier, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute>. Refer to [Interop best practices](./best-practices.md) for additional guidance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In .NET 7+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute> provides source-generated support for calling C functions. If you're targeting .NET 6 or earlier, use <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute>. For more information, see [Interop best practices](./best-practices.md).
```

Additional links:

> * [`LibraryImportAttribute` walkthrough](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/pinvoke-source-generation)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [`LibraryImportAttribute` walkthrough](pinvoke-source-generation.md)
```

* [CsWin32](https://github.com/microsoft/CsWin32) is a source generator for accessing the Windows Win32 API surface

## C++

The [C++ language](https://isocpp.org/) has no defined ABI across all .NET supported platforms and the most popular C++ compiler implementations (that is, MSVC, clang, and GCC). This lack of a consistent ABI makes it difficult to target directly.

The recommended way to interoperate with C++ is to export functions marked with [`extern "C"`](/cpp/cpp/extern-cpp) and call them as C functions.

Additional links:

* [ClangSharp](https://github.com/dotnet/ClangSharp) binding generator

## COM and `IUnknown`

> The COM and `IUnknown` ABI was defined to align with the C language. It was specifically designed to support Object Oriented Programming, similar to C++, but to provide a stable ABI. .NET has a deep history with COM and `IUnknown` and as this ABI was originally designed to align with C, it is supported on all .NET platforms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The COM and `IUnknown` ABI was defined to align with the C language. It was specifically designed to support object-oriented programming, similar to C++, but to provide a stable ABI. .NET has a deep history with COM and `IUnknown`, and as this ABI was originally designed to align with C, it's supported on all .NET platforms.
```

> In .NET 5+, low-level, cross-platform, `IUnknown` lifetime support is provided by <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComWrappers>. In .NET 8+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> provide source generated C# projections. When targeting versions prior to .NET 5, the [built-in COM interop system](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/cominterop) must be used and is limited to the Windows platforms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In .NET 5+, low-level, cross-platform, `IUnknown` lifetime support is provided by <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComWrappers>. In .NET 8+, <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComInterfaceAttribute> and <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshalling.GeneratedComClassAttribute> provide source generated C# projections. If you're targeting versions prior to .NET 5, you must use the [built-in COM interop system](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/cominterop), and this support is limited to Windows.
```

The WinRT platform represents an evolution of the COM and `IUnknown` ABI. Support for this is provided by the [CsWinRT toolkit](/windows/apps/develop/platform/csharp-winrt/) and is built upon <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComWrappers>.

Additional links:

> * [`ComWrappers` walkthrough](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/tutorial-comwrappers)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [`ComWrappers` walkthrough](tutorial-comwrappers.md)
```

> * [COM source generator sample](/dotnet/standard/native-interop/comwrappers-source-generation)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [COM source generator sample](comwrappers-source-generation.md)
```

## Objective-C

The Objective-C language follows the C language's ABI and is [supported in .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2021/objectivec-interop.md). In .NET 8+, specific APIs that support interop with Objective-C can be found under the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ObjectiveC> namespace.

Additional links:

* [Objective-Sharpie](/previous-versions/xamarin/cross-platform/macios/binding/)
* [Objective-C binding walkthrough](/dotnet/maui/migration/ios-binding-projects)

## Python

The reference implementation of the Python run-time, [CPython](https://github.com/python/cpython), defines a foreign function interface (FFI) in C to interoperate with other platforms. Interoperability between .NET and Python can be achieved via this interface.

Additional links:

* [Providing a C API for an Extension Module](https://docs.python.org/3/extending/extending.html#providing-a-c-api-for-an-extension-module)
* [Python for .NET](https://github.com/pythonnet/pythonnet)

## golang

> The Go programming language is not supported for in-process interoperability. The Go runtime [imposes requirements](https://pkg.go.dev/os/signal#hdr-Non_Go_programs_that_call_Go_code) on being hosted in a process with another run-time. Specifically, the use of the `SA_ONSTACK` flag on threads that run signal handlers. These requirements are not currently met by .NET.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Go programming language is not supported for in-process interoperability. The Go runtime [imposes requirements](https://pkg.go.dev/os/signal#hdr-Non_Go_programs_that_call_Go_code) on being hosted in a process with another runtime. Specifically, that requirement is the use of the `SA_ONSTACK` flag on threads that run signal handlers. These requirements are not currently met by .NET.
```

> The recommended way to interoperate with golang is using a golang hosted process and communicate through an inter-process communication mechanism.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The recommended way to interoperate with golang is to use a golang-hosted process and communicate through an inter-process communication mechanism.
```
